---
layout: default
title: Executive Assistant and Office Manager
date:   2025-05-29 12:00:00 +0200
permalink: /job-ea/
categories: ea careers
location: Central London
kind: On-site
report: CEO
---

<h1 style="text-align: left;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<div class="job-meta">Posted: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Location: {{ page.location }} ({{ page.kind }})</div>
<div class="job-meta">Type: Permanent (>4.5 years funding guaranteed)</div>
<div class="job-meta">Reporting to: {{ page.report }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Contact and application: <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a></div>
<br />

## About Bind Research
Bind Research is an innovative not-for-profit research organisation at the forefront of developing tools and datasets to characterise small-molecule interactions with intrinsically disordered proteins. Based in central London, Bind leverages interdisciplinary methods that span experimental biophysics—with a strong focus on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy—as well as computational approaches and cellular studies. You will play a crucial role in shaping the future of this cutting-edge research initiative from the beginning.

Join Bind Research and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins. If you are a dedicated biochemist or biophysicist professional eager to advance science and technology in an innovative environment, we encourage you to apply!

---

## Role Overview
We are seeking a proactive, highly organised Executive Assistant & Office Manager to support our CEO and senior leadership team (SLT), helping to ensure smooth day-to-day operations.

### Key Responsibilities
- Managing CEO’s email and calendar 
- Arranging meetings for the SLT
- Booking travel and accommodation for senior leaders
- Arranging Board & advisory meetings
- Managing office environment and employee wellbeing, including appropriate supplies, including printer supplies, coffee, snacks etc
- Supporting planning of internal and external events
- Lead on social organisation events
- Support with HR/people activities

---

## Qualifications and Expertise

### Essential 
- **Previous experience** - Proven experience in an Executive Assistant and office Manager.
- **Proactive and resourceful** - Able to anticipate needs, solve problems independently, and keeping the leadership team focused on looking forward.
- **Discreet and trustworthy** - Handles confidential information with the highest integrity and professionalism.
- **Highly organised** - Skilled at juggling multiple priorities and maintaining structure in a dynamic, ambiguous environment.
- **Excellent communicator** - Clear, concise, and tactful communication, particularly when liaising with senior stakeholders, including board directors, scientific advisory boards and collaborators.
- **Emotionally intelligent** - Sensitive to the needs of others, with strong interpersonal skills and the ability to work well with a diverse team.
- **Mission-aligned** - Genuine interest in supporting a non-for-profit purpose driven organisation.

### Desirable 
- **Self-starter** - Able to anticipate needs and act proactively in a fast-paced, dynamic environment.
- **Sector knowledge** - Experience working in a start-up or scientific or biotechnology environment.
- **Board level** - Familiarity with governance processes

---

## What we offer
- ⁠Industry-competitive salary
- ⁠Employer pension contribution in line with market standards
- ⁠30 days annual leave plus 8 bank holidays
- ⁠Additional benefits package

---

## Our Culture
- **Follow the science.** We prioritise rigorous scientific inquiry, relying on evidence and expertise to guide decisions and actions, incorporating the latest research to achieve meaningful, ethical, and impactful outcomes for the public and scientific community.
- **Think dynamically.** We believe the most effective solutions come from a dynamic, adaptable mindset that embraces uncertainty as a catalyst for discovery, encouraging creativity, challenging assumptions, and approaching problems from multiple angles to foster innovation, navigate complexity, and deliver exceptional results.
- **Celebrate a diverse ensemble.** We celebrate diversity and inclusion, fostering a culture where all perspectives, backgrounds, and talents are valued, respected, and empowered to thrive, enabling us to better understand our community, collaborate effectively, and deliver impactful solutions.
- **Build an innovation hub.** We strive to advance disordered protein research by creating and sharing tools and datasets collaboratively, building on past contributions, and working alongside the disordered protein community to deepen understanding and maximise collective impact.

**Join Bind Research** and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins!

*Please apply by sending a CV to <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a> with a short covering paragraph outlining why you are interested in the role. We would like to keep your CV on file for future openings that align with your skills and experience. If you consent to us retaining your application for this purpose, please let us know in the covering email. You may request its removal at any time by contacting <a href="mailto:info@bindresearch.org">info@bindresearch.org</a>.*
