---
layout: default
title: Project/Delivery Manager
date:   2025-02-11 12:00:00 +0200
permalink: /job-delivery/
categories: project delivery careers
location: Central London
kind: On-site
---

<h1 style="text-align: left;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<div class="job-meta">Posted: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Location: {{ page.location }} ({{ page.kind }})</div>
<div class="job-meta">Contact and application: <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a></div>
<br />

## About Bind Research
Bind is a leading non-profit organisation dedicated to advancing life sciences research by developing tools and datasets to characterise small-molecule interactions with intrinsically disordered proteins. We work through collaboration, innovation, and open-access initiatives alongside academic institutions, industry partners, and governmental organizations to drive meaningful scientific discoveries that address global health challenges. 

Based in central London, Bind leverages interdisciplinary methods spanning experimental biophysics and computational approaches. The Delivery Manager will play a crucial role in shaping the future of this cutting-edge research initiative from the beginning.

---

## Role Overview
We are seeking a highly motivated and experienced Delivery Manager to oversee the successful execution of projects and ensure smooth operational delivery. The role is 80% focused on project management, ensuring research and technology projects are delivered on time and within scope, and 20% focused on operational delivery and stakeholder liaison, maintaining efficient workflows and strong relationships with internal and external stakeholders. 

The successful candidate will have a background in life sciences, preferably to higher degree level, plus industry experience, ideally in project delivery. 

### Key Responsibilities
1. **Project management (80%)**
- Project manage a portfolio of three internal developmental, capability programmes ensuring alignment with organisational goals and timelines. 
- Manage a growing portfolio of externally focussed research and technology projects from inception to completion, ensuring a timely delivery of outputs. 
- Collaborate with researchers, technical teams, and external partners to define project scope, objectives, and deliverables. 
- Develop project plans, manage budgets, allocate resources, and monitor project performance. 
- Identify and mitigate risks, ensuring projects adhere to compliance and regulatory requirements. 
- Track project progress using appropriate tools and methodologies, ensuring clear reporting and communication. 
- Facilitate agile project management practices where applicable. 
- Monitor and evaluate the portfolio, undertaking analysis and provide the senior management team with insights against the organisational goals. 
- Assist in optimising internal processes to enhance project execution and overall organisational efficiency. 

2. **Operational delivery & stakeholder liaison (20%)**
- Act as a key point of contact between internal teams, facility management team, and external suppliers. 
- Ensure the operational environment enables efficient delivery of the programmes and projects.  
- Support governance structures by preparing reports, documentation, and coordinating meetings. 
- Support infrastructure development where required. 

---

## Qualifications, essential skills and expertise 
- Proven experience in project management and operational delivery, ideally within life sciences research and development. 
- Strong background in managing multi-stakeholder projects with complex dependencies. 
- Familiarity with research environments and grant-funded projects 
- Experience with project management methodologies (e.g., Agile, PRINCE2, PMP) and relevant tools (e.g., Jira, Asana, MS Project). 
- Exceptional communication and stakeholder management skills, with the ability to engage technical and non-technical audiences. 
- Highly organised, detail-oriented, and adept at problem-solving in dynamic environments. 
- Ideally a knowledge of project governance and compliance, such as Health & Safety. 

## Personal Attributes 
- **Strong delivery & initiative** – Able to take ownership of projects, drive them forward proactively, and collaborate with interdisciplinary scientific and technical teams effectively. 
- **Excellent communication & stakeholder engagement** – Comfortable liaising with researchers, technical teams, and external partners, ensuring clarity and alignment across diverse audiences. 
- **Organisational & multitasking** – Ability to manage multiple complex projects simultaneously, keeping track of deadlines, deliverables, and shifting priorities. 
- **Problem-solving & adaptability** – A flexible and analytical thinker who can anticipate challenges, propose solutions, and adapt to the fast-changing research landscape. 
- **Attention to detail** – Ensures accuracy in project documentation, compliance adherence, and operational workflows without losing sight of the broader objectives. 
- **Passion for science & innovation** – An enthusiasm for life sciences research and technology innovation. 
- **Collaborative & team-oriented mindset** – Works effectively in multidisciplinary environments, fostering partnerships and promoting a culture of shared success. 
- **Continuous improvement** in delivery and efficiency to achieve the organisational goals 
- **Resilience & approach** – Ability to stay calm under pressure, navigate complex scientific and operational challenges. 

---

## What we offer
- ⁠Industry-competitive salary
- ⁠Employer pension contribution in line with market standards
- ⁠30 days annual leave plus 8 bank holidays
- ⁠Additional benefits package

---

## Our Culture
- **Follow the science.** We prioritise rigorous scientific inquiry, relying on evidence and expertise to guide decisions and actions, incorporating the latest research to achieve meaningful, ethical, and impactful outcomes for the public and scientific community.
- **Think dynamically.** We believe the most effective solutions come from a dynamic, adaptable mindset that embraces uncertainty as a catalyst for discovery, encouraging creativity, challenging assumptions, and approaching problems from multiple angles to foster innovation, navigate complexity, and deliver exceptional results.
- **Celebrate a diverse ensemble.** We celebrate diversity and inclusion, fostering a culture where all perspectives, backgrounds, and talents are valued, respected, and empowered to thrive, enabling us to better understand our community, collaborate effectively, and deliver impactful solutions.
- **Build an innovation hub.** We strive to advance disordered protein research by creating and sharing tools and datasets collaboratively, building on past contributions, and working alongside the disordered protein community to deepen understanding and maximise collective impact.

**Join Bind Research** and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins!

*Please apply by sending a CV to <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a> with a short covering paragraph outlining why you are interested in the role. We would like to keep your CV on file for future openings that align with your skills and experience. If you consent to us retaining your application for this purpose, please let us know in the covering email. You may request its removal at any time by contacting <a href="mailto:info@bindresearch.org">info@bindresearch.org</a>.*