---
layout: default
title: (Senior) Scientist, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
date:   2025-03-08 12:00:00 +0200
permalink: /job-nmr/
categories: biophysics careers nmr
location: Central London
kind: On-site
---

<h1 style="text-align: left;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<div class="job-meta">Posted: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Location: {{ page.location }} ({{ page.kind }})</div>
<div class="job-meta">Type: Permanent (>4.5 years funding guaranteed)</div>
<div class="job-meta">Contact and application: <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a></div>
<br />

## About Bind Research
Bind Research is an innovative not-for-profit research organisation at the forefront of developing tools and datasets to characterise small-molecule interactions with intrinsically disordered proteins. Based in central London, Bind leverages interdisciplinary methods that span experimental biophysics—with a strong focus on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy—as well as computational approaches and cellular studies. You will play a crucial role in shaping the future of this cutting-edge research initiative from the beginning. 

Join Bind Research and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins. If you are a dedicated NMR professional eager to advance science and technology in an innovative environment, we encourage you to apply! 

---

## Role Overview
We are seeking a (Senior) Scientist to drive advancements in biomolecular NMR capabilities at Bind. This role is primarily focused on developing new NMR methodologies, including experimental and analytical protocols, to accelerate the characterisation of disordered proteins and their interactions. A key aspect of the role involves integrating AI methods with NMR. The ideal candidate will have a strong theoretical foundation in NMR spectroscopy, expertise in acquiring and analysing multidimensional NMR data, and a passion for pushing the boundaries of biomolecular NMR. 

### Key Responsibilities
1. **Technical Expertise**
- Provide advanced technical expertise in experimental NMR methods, including the implementation and optimisation of pulse sequences. 
- Perform NMR experiments to characterise interactions between small molecules and intrinsically disordered proteins, including peak assignment, relaxation studies, and solvent exchange experiments. 
- Process multidimensional NMR spectra and oversee data analysis pipelines for downstream research applications. 
- Develop robust automated or semi-automated platforms for NMR data acquisition and analysis to enhance characterisation throughput. 
2. **Driving innovation**
- Stay up to date with advancements in biomolecular NMR, disordered proteins, and AI, and translate these developments into novel experimental and analytical approaches. 
- Contribute to the design and execution of innovative NMR-based research projects, particularly through the integration of AI and NMR methodologies to advance Bind’s scientific objectives. 
3. **Team Collaboration and Training**
- Collaborate with  team members to deliver comprehensive training in spectrometer operation, data processing, and analysis. 
- Mentor and support Bind’s interdisciplinary team in experimental design, execution, and data interpretation. 
4. **Facility Management**
- Assist in the management of Bind’s NMR equipment, ensuring its safety, efficiency, and reliability. 
- Perform routine liquid nitrogen fills for spectrometer maintenance. 

---

## Qualifications and Expertise
### Education 
- PhD in Biological or Physical Sciences with specialisation in NMR of biological macromolecules, or equivalent experience. 
- Extensive knowledge of protein NMR techniques and methodologies, particularly multidimensional heteronuclear approaches. 

### Skills and Abilities 
- Strong written and verbal communication skills, with the ability to engage effectively with interdisciplinary teams. 
- Deep understanding of NMR theory. 
- Strong programming skills in Python, with extensive experience using the scientific stack, particularly NumPy and SciPy. 
- Demonstrated ability to conduct experiments independently and manage technical systems efficiently. 
- Proficiency in programming advanced NMR pulse sequences, including shaped pulses, pulsed field gradients, and phase cycling. 
- Proven ability to process and analyse complex multidimensional NMR spectra. 

### Experience 
- Development and implementation of novel NMR pulse sequences and analysis methodologies. 
- Extensive operational experience in multidimensional heteronuclear NMR for isotopically labelled macromolecules. 
- Proven track record in resonance assignments and binding analysis using NMR. 

### Nice to have 
- Expertise in AI/ML and the associated Python stack (Torch/TensorFlow/JAX, scikit-learn). 
- Experience managing NMR installations and ensuring site readiness. 
- Hands-on experience with NMR facility operations, including liquid nitrogen and helium refills. 
- Expertise in maintaining and troubleshooting NMR systems, including spectrometer consoles and cryogenically cooled probes. 

### Additional Attributes 
- A creative mindset with a passion for advancing biomolecular NMR spectroscopy. 
- Enthusiasm for training and mentoring team members at all levels of NMR expertise. 
- A collaborative approach, with a willingness to engage in team-based research initiatives. 
- Commitment to continuous professional development in biomolecular NMR spectroscopy. 
- Passion for contributing to the establishment and growth of a world-class research organisation. 

---

## What we offer
- ⁠Industry-competitive salary
- ⁠Employer pension contribution in line with market standards
- ⁠30 days annual leave plus 8 bank holidays
- ⁠Additional benefits package

---

## Our Culture
- **Follow the science.** We prioritise rigorous scientific inquiry, relying on evidence and expertise to guide decisions and actions, incorporating the latest research to achieve meaningful, ethical, and impactful outcomes for the public and scientific community.
- **Think dynamically.** We believe the most effective solutions come from a dynamic, adaptable mindset that embraces uncertainty as a catalyst for discovery, encouraging creativity, challenging assumptions, and approaching problems from multiple angles to foster innovation, navigate complexity, and deliver exceptional results.
- **Celebrate a diverse ensemble.** We celebrate diversity and inclusion, fostering a culture where all perspectives, backgrounds, and talents are valued, respected, and empowered to thrive, enabling us to better understand our community, collaborate effectively, and deliver impactful solutions.
- **Build an innovation hub.** We strive to advance disordered protein research by creating and sharing tools and datasets collaboratively, building on past contributions, and working alongside the disordered protein community to deepen understanding and maximise collective impact.

**Join Bind Research** and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins!

*Please apply by sending a CV to <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a> with a short covering paragraph outlining why you are interested in the role. We would like to keep your CV on file for future openings that align with your skills and experience. If you consent to us retaining your application for this purpose, please let us know in the covering email. You may request its removal at any time by contacting <a href="mailto:info@bindresearch.org">info@bindresearch.org</a>.*
