---
layout: default
title: (Senior) Scientist, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
date:   2025-02-11 12:00:00 +0200
permalink: /job-nmr/
categories: biophysics careers nmr
location: Central London
kind: On-site
---

<h1 style="text-align: left;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<div class="job-meta">Location: {{ page.location }} ({{ page.kind }})</div>
<div class="job-meta">Posted: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Contact and application: <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a></div>
<br />

## About Bind Research
Bind Research is an innovative not-for-profit research organisation at the forefront of developing tools and datasets to characterise small-molecule interactions with intrinsically disordered proteins. Based in central London, Bind leverages interdisciplinary methods that span experimental biophysics—with a strong focus on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy—as well as computational approaches and cellular studies. You will play a crucial role in shaping the future of this cutting-edge research initiative from the beginning.
Join Bind Research and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins. If you are a dedicated NMR professional eager to advance science and technology in an innovative environment, we encourage you to apply!

---

## Role Overview
We are seeking a Senior Scientist to manage and advance the biomolecular NMR capabilities at Bind. This role includes overseeing the installation, operation, maintenance, and development of our NMR capabilities/facility  (currently 600 MHz and 400 MHz spectrometers) and leading facility management and optimisation, enabling an environment for NMR innovation to flourish. 

### Key Responsibilities
1. **Facility Management**
- Oversee NMR installation projects and coordinate site management activities.
- Manage the daily operations of the Bind’s NMR equipment, ensuring safety, efficiency, and reliability.
- Perform routine liquid nitrogen and helium fills for spectrometer maintenance.
- Develop and implement policies, procedures, and priorities for safe and effective magnet operations, ensuring compliance with health and safety regulations, in collaboration with building management and senior staff.

2. **Technical Expertise**
- Provide advanced technical expertise in experimental NMR methods, including the implementation and optimization of pulse sequences.
- Ensure the ongoing performance of NMR spectrometers through regular maintenance and troubleshooting.
- Performing NMR experiments to characterise interactions between small molecules and intrinsically disordered proteins such as peak assignment, relaxation and solvent exchange experiments.
- Process multidimensional NMR spectra and oversee data analysis pipelines for downstream research applications.

3. **Team Collaboration and Training**
- Collaborate with the Head of Magnetic Resonance and team members to deliver comprehensive training programs for spectrometer operation, data processing, and analysis.
- Mentor and support Bind’s interdisciplinary team in experimental design, execution, and data interpretation.

4. **Driving innovation**
- Stay current with advancements in biomolecular NMR, disordered proteins, and spectrometer technologies, advising on new equipment acquisitions and upgrades.
- Contribute to the design and execution of innovative NMR-based research projects to drive Bind’s scientific mission forward.

---

## Qualifications and Expertise

### Education and Experience
- PhD in Biological or Physical Sciences, with specialization in NMR of biological macromolecules.
- Extensive knowledge of protein NMR techniques and methodologies, including multidimensional heteronuclear approaches.

### Skills and Abilities
- Strong written and verbal communication skills, with the ability to communicate effectively with team members in diverse fields.
- Expertise in maintaining and troubleshooting NMR systems, including spectrometer consoles and cryogenically cooled probes.
- Demonstrable ability to conduct experiments independently and manage technical systems effectively.
- Proficiency in programming advanced NMR pulse sequences, including shaped pulses, pulsed field gradients, and phase cycling.
- Proven ability to process and analyze complex multidimensional NMR spectra.

### Experience
- Successful management of NMR installations and site readiness.
- Hands-on experience with NMR facility operations, including liquid nitrogen and helium refills.
- Extensive operational experience in multidimensional heteronuclear NMR for isotopically-labelled macromolecules.
- Proven track record in resonance assignments and binding analysis using NMR.

## Additional Attributes
- Commitment to maintaining high-performance operation of NMR spectrometers.
- Enthusiasm for training and mentoring team members at all levels of expertise in NMR methodologies.
- Collaborative mindset with a willingness to engage in team-based research initiatives.
- Dedication to continuous professional development in macromolecular NMR spectroscopy.
- Passion for contributing to the establishment and growth of a world-class research organization as a founding team member.

---

## What we offer
- ⁠Industry-competitive salary
- ⁠Employer pension contribution in line with market standards
- ⁠30 days annual leave plus 8 bank holidays
- ⁠Additional benefits package

---

## Our Culture
- **Follow the science.** We prioritise rigorous scientific inquiry, relying on evidence and expertise to guide decisions and actions, incorporating the latest research to achieve meaningful, ethical, and impactful outcomes for the public and scientific community.
- **Think dynamically.** We believe the most effective solutions come from a dynamic, adaptable mindset that embraces uncertainty as a catalyst for discovery, encouraging creativity, challenging assumptions, and approaching problems from multiple angles to foster innovation, navigate complexity, and deliver exceptional results.
- **Celebrate a diverse ensemble.** We celebrate diversity and inclusion, fostering a culture where all perspectives, backgrounds, and talents are valued, respected, and empowered to thrive, enabling us to better understand our community, collaborate effectively, and deliver impactful solutions.
- **Build an innovation hub.** We strive to advance disordered protein research by creating and sharing tools and datasets collaboratively, building on past contributions, and working alongside the disordered protein community to deepen understanding and maximise collective impact.

**Join Bind Research** and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins!

*Please apply by sending a CV to <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a> with a short covering paragraph outlining why you are interested in the role. We would like to keep your CV on file for future openings that align with your skills and experience. If you consent to us retaining your application for this purpose, please let us know in the covering email. You may request its removal at any time by contacting <a href="mailto:info@bindresearch.org">info@bindresearch.org</a>.*
