---
layout: default
title: (Senior) Biophysical Scientist / Protein Biochemist
date:   2025-02-11 12:00:00 +0200
permalink: /job-biophys/
categories: biophysics careers
location: Central London
kind: On-site
---

<h1 style="text-align: left;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<div class="job-meta">Posted: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}</div>
<div class="job-meta">Location: {{ page.location }} ({{ page.kind }})</div>
<div class="job-meta">Contact and application: <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a></div>
<br />

## About Bind Research
Bind Research is an innovative not-for-profit research organisation at the forefront of developing tools and datasets to characterise small-molecule interactions with intrinsically disordered proteins. Based in central London, Bind leverages interdisciplinary methods that span experimental biophysics—with a strong focus on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy—as well as computational approaches and cellular studies. You will play a crucial role in shaping the future of this cutting-edge research initiative from the beginning.

Join Bind Research and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins. If you are a dedicated biochemist or biophysicist professional eager to advance science and technology in an innovative environment, we encourage you to apply!

---

## Role Overview
We are seeking a highly motivated Biochemist/Biophysicist to join our interdisciplinary team focused on drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs). This role is ideal for a scientist with expertise in protein production, purification, and biophysical characterization, who is eager to apply their skills to a challenging and cutting-edge research area. Collaboration is at the heart of this role—you will work closely with experimental and computational scientists to integrate findings and develop new hypotheses. We are looking for a scientist with strong technical expertise, problem-solving ability, and a passion for advancing IDP-targeted drug discovery. This is an exciting opportunity to contribute to a growing not-for-profit research organisation dedicated to making IDPs druggable.

### Key Responsibilities
1. **Protein Production Purification and Optimisation**
- Express and purify IDPs using recombinant expression systems
- Optimise protein production, purification, and labelling strategies to enable high quality biophysical characterisation

2. **Biophysical Characterisation of disordered-small molecule interactions**
- Apply biophysical techniques (e.g., NMR, circular dichroism, fluorescence-based methods) to characterise interactions between IDPs and small molecules.
- Contribute to the development of high-throughput workflows for screening small-molecule interactions with IDPs.

3. **Team Collaboration**
- Work closely with experimental and computational scientists to develop and test new hypotheses and integrate experimental data with in-silico approaches.
- Support the management of wet lab operations.
- Maintain accurate and well-organised documentation of experiments, protocols, and results.

4. **Driving Innovation**
- Stay up to date with advancements in IDP research and emerging techniques for characterising their interactions.

---

## Qualifications and Expertise

We encourage applications from biochemists, biophysicists, and individuals with relevant transferable skills who are enthusiastic about our mission to make disordered proteins druggable, even if they do not meet every requirement listed below. We value diverse perspectives and welcome candidates from both academic and industry backgrounds.

### Education and Experience
- Ph.D. or equivalent experience in Biochemistry, Biophysics, Structural Biology, Molecular Biology, or a related field.
- Hands-on experience with one or more biophysical techniques relevant to intrinsically disordered proteins and drug discovery (e.g., NMR, CD, SPR, BLI).
- Experience working with high-throughput screening methods.

### Skills and Abilities
- Strong written and verbal communication skills, with the ability to communicate effectively with team members in diverse fields.
- Strong expertise in recombinant protein expression, purification, and characterisation.

### Additional Attributes
- Collaborative and interdisciplinary spirit with a strong willingness to engage in team-based research initiatives.
- Dedication to continuous professional development in biochemical/biophysical methods relevant to intrinsically disordered proteins.
- Passion for contributing to the establishment and growth of a world-class not-for-profit research organisation.

### Nice to have
- Experience with cell-based assays for assessing the functional impact of small-molecule drugs.
- Programming skills for data analysis (e.g. Python) to support biophysical data interpretation and workflow automation.
- Experience of producing isotopically labelled samples for NMR studies.

---

## What we offer
- ⁠Industry-competitive salary
- ⁠Employer pension contribution in line with market standards
- ⁠30 days annual leave plus 8 bank holidays
- ⁠Additional benefits package

---

## Our Culture
- **Follow the science.** We prioritise rigorous scientific inquiry, relying on evidence and expertise to guide decisions and actions, incorporating the latest research to achieve meaningful, ethical, and impactful outcomes for the public and scientific community.
- **Think dynamically.** We believe the most effective solutions come from a dynamic, adaptable mindset that embraces uncertainty as a catalyst for discovery, encouraging creativity, challenging assumptions, and approaching problems from multiple angles to foster innovation, navigate complexity, and deliver exceptional results.
- **Celebrate a diverse ensemble.** We celebrate diversity and inclusion, fostering a culture where all perspectives, backgrounds, and talents are valued, respected, and empowered to thrive, enabling us to better understand our community, collaborate effectively, and deliver impactful solutions.
- **Build an innovation hub.** We strive to advance disordered protein research by creating and sharing tools and datasets collaboratively, building on past contributions, and working alongside the disordered protein community to deepen understanding and maximise collective impact.

**Join Bind Research** and help push the limits of drug discovery for intrinsically disordered proteins!

Apply by sending a CV to <a href="mailto:careers@bindresearch.org">careers@bindresearch.org</a>.
